The subject driver is approaching a highway entrance ramp. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. It is dark, but the area is consistently lit. The subject driver is extremely drowsy. After turning right through a signalized intersection, the subject driver dozes off briefly and drifts over to the right side of the road, hitting the curb.
Subject vehicle is stopped at an intersection behind a lead vehicle. Subject is looking out the left window and plugging in her cell phone charger. The following vehicle (V2) begins to move forward even though the subject is still stopped. V2 rear-ends the subject. This collision was minor.
Subject is driving in the leftmost lane of a three-lane, dry, divided highway at night.  The road is well lit, there is no adverse weather, and traffic is light (LOS A2).  Subject is traveling in a business area and the road is controlled by stop lights.  Subject is holding what appears to be a cellphone in right hand and texting throughout the trip.  Vehicle 2, in the middle lane, turns on the left turn signal and merges into the left lane ahead of Subject.  Subject glances up and notices this lane change but returns attention to phone shortly thereafter.  Subsequently, V2 slows to a stop in traffic, possibly in reaction to a red light up ahead.  Subject is looking at phone while V2 stops and fails to notice until Subject Vehicle is around half a lane mark away.  Subject slams on the brakes but cannot avoid rear-ending V2 at around 34 MPH.  The collision sends V2 forward several feet.
Subject is entering a well-lit freeway from a right-side on-ramp at night.  The road is wet and there appears to be light rain.  Traffic is light (LOS B). There is construction and a line of police cars blocking the shoulder of the roadway as Subject is entering. Vehicle 2 is merging directly in front of Subject Vehicle.  V2 slows to a stop shortly after entering the main freeway. Meanwhile, Subject is looking through the driver-side window for oncoming traffic and fails to notice V2's stop. Subject attempts to brake but collides with V2 at about 30 MPH. 
Subject is driving in the leftmost lane of a dry, divided two-lane highway during daylight hours.  Traffic is minimal (LOS A2) and there is no adverse weather. Traffic is headed towards a construction zone and the speed is reduced. The lead vehicle, Vehicle 2 (V2), slows in response to traffic ahead.  Subject driver brakes lightly as well. Subsequently, Subject driver picks up a cellphone from his lap and appears to be reading a text message.  V2 comes to a stop while Subject driver is distracted by cellphone.  Subject driver looks up and attempts to brakes hard just as the vehicle collides with V2. V2 moves over to the right shoulder and Subject driver follows.  Both stop to inspect for damage.
Subject is merging onto a dry, divided highway at night.  There is no adverse weather and the road is lit.  Traffic is heavy (LOS D) and the on-ramp is heavily impacted by construction.  Vehicle 2 is merging directly ahead of the subject.  Temporary channelizing devices (including cones and gates) block a significant portion of the merge area and force the onramp to merge sooner than usual.  Traffic on the highway is moving relatively quickly (around 55-60 mph) and V2 slows to a wait for a break in traffic.  Subject driver is glancing out the driver-side window at approaching traffic and fails to notice that V2 has come to a near complete stop.  Subject driver brakes belatedly and collides into V2 at around 38mph, forcing V2 to skid forward.  V2 nearly sideswipes a third vehicle in the lane of oncoming traffic. V2 brakes and briefly shares a lane with V3 before pulling off to the shoulder. Both the subject vehicle and V2 run over several cones before stopping.
The subject driver is traveling in the right lane of an interstate. He is distracted, glancing down frequently to adjust the radio. The posted speed limit is 70 miles per hour, and the subject driver travels at roughly 60 miles per hour. The lead vehicle (V2) is a tractor traveling on the right shoulder, with a lawnmowing attachment that juts partially into the right lane. The subject driver does not notice that he is quickly approaching V2 until the vehicles are fewer than 15 meters apart. The subject driver attempts to brake and steer into the left lane, but cannot avoid hitting the lawn-mowing attachment of V2. The subject vehicle is knocked several feet into the air before landing and veering onto the right shoulder. V2 is propelled left, toward the median.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided urban road that has narrowed to one lane due to construction. Ahead, the subject's lane joins a lane to the left that is initially diagonal in relation to the subject's path. Vehicle 2, in the lane that joins the subject's lane, intends to turn right into a parking lot entrance at the point where the lanes meet. V2 turns just as the subject arrives and hits the driver's side of the subject vehicle.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels along an undivided, 2-lane residential road. It is night and the road is not lit. Only one other lead vehicle (V2) is present. Construction barrels are on the right side of the road, but no construction takes place during the event. Throughout the event, subject is slowly putting on a sweater while not wearing a seat belt. Subject has no hands on the wheel while this happens. Subject is also singing. Both vehicles approach a signalized intersection with a red light and merge into the right lane with the intention of making a right turn. V2 signals for the merge while SV does not. Subject grabs the wheel with her left hand after the sweater is put on and begins to decelerate before the intersection. V2 crosses the white line while decelerating and then stops completely before executing the right turn. Subject looks to the left to reapply the seatbelt and does not realize V2 is completely stopped. Subject looks back to the road and tries to avoid a collision by braking, but it is unsuccessful. SV rear-ends V2 at 23 mph.
Subject is exiting a highway during daylight hours in minimal traffic (LOS B).  Subject is occasionally interacting with a passenger in the adjacent front seat.  Subject comes to a stop sign at the end of the exit ramp and stops.  Vehicle 2, behind Subject Vehicle signals right and accelerates forward, failing to notice Subject's stop.  V2 rear-ends Subject Vehicle at a significant speed.
Subject vehicle travels along an undivided, 2-lane residential road in daylight with LOS A1 conditions. Subject merges into a dedicated left-turn lane of a 4-way signalized intersection with a green light. Subject vehicle proceeds into the intersection, but subject continually glances at something in the vehicle's center stack. While looking down, subject makes a wide left and runs over the curb of the corner of the intersection. Subject vehicle is going 17 mph when it strikes the curb. Subject steers left and gets the vehicle back on the road to continue forward.
Subject is traveling on an exit ramp to leave one highway and enter another.  There is light rain, the road is wet, and the exit ramp curves to the left.  Subject is driving around 40-45 MPH through the curve of the ramp.  Near the end of the exit ramp, Subject looks to the left for oncoming traffic in the lane ahead.  Then, the vehicle begins to skid to the right. Subject brakes and steers sharply to the left, but the vehicle continues to skid, rotating 180 degrees clockwise.  The car stops on the shoulder, facing oncoming traffic. Subject allows other vehicles to pass, and then drives through the merge lane directly onto the highway.
Subject is traveling in the leftmost lane of a two-lane highway during daylight hours.  The lead vehicle swerves to the right in order to avoid a shredded tire in the lane.  Subject, scratching neck and turning slightly to the left, fails to notice the tire and runs over it.
The subject driver travels on an undivided residential road. The road surface is wet. The subject driver  appears fatigued, and keeps nodding off throughout the event. The subject driver negotiates a curve  and a parked construction vehicle, surrounded by cones, comes into view. The subject driver does not  seem to noticed the construction vehicle until she strikes a cone. The subject driver brakes and swerves  left to avoid hitting the construction vehicle.
The subject is traveling on a divided four-lane highway through a business area. There is significant traffic around the subject, and the far right lane is closed due to construction. The subject moves into the third through lane behind the lead vehicle (V2). V2 starts to decelerate in response to traffic (the flow is stopping due to a traffic signal ahead). The subject starts to reach into her purse, taking her attention off the roadway. When the subject's attention returns to the road, she notices that V2 has stopped. The subject applies the brakes at the last second but still rear-ends V2. This contact was relatively minor. The subject pulls into a parking lot while V2 continues traveling in the through lane.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided road under construction in a business area. Subject turns right too tightly into a gas station parking lot and drives up over a curb to the right.
The subject driver approaches a signalized intersection at the end of a highway exit ramp in the right-most of two dedicated right turn lanes. V2, a car carrier, is in the left adjacent dedicated right turn lane with its right turn signal on. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. The light is red. When the light turns green, V2 starts to turn right across the subject vehicle's path. The subject driver attempts to accelerate and steer right, onto the right shoulder, to allow V2 more room to turn. V2 sideswipes the subject vehicle.
Subject vehicle is looking for parking in a commercial parking lot with no other moving vehicles present. It is nighttime, but the area is lit. Subject turns left into what he believes to be a parking space, but it is actually the grassy area between the sidewalk and the curb. Subject strikes the curb at approximately 3 MPH. 
The subject driver, following vehicle (V3) and lead vehicle (V2) travel in the right lane of a commercial  road under construction. V3 decelerates in response to lead traffic conditions, and the subject driver  brakes appropriately. V2 fails to brake and rear-ends the subject vehicle, propelling it forward. The  subject driver brakes in time to avoid rear-ending V3.
Subject is traveling on a non-divided roadway through a business area. There is construction blocking  the right lane and significantly reducing the flow of traffic (LOS F). Ahead, the lead vehicle (V2) starts to  move forward slowly. The subject follows but she is distracted with fixing her hair and reaching for an  object. Because she is distracted she fails to notice the lead vehicle has come to a stop. When her  attention returns to the roadway, she attempts to brake hard. This evasive maneuver is unsuccessful,  however, as the subject rear-ends V2. This contact was minor but both drivers pull over to exchange  information. The subject presses the Critical Incidents Button to explain the situation. 
Subject vehicle is traveling in a business area behind V2. It is night, the area is lit, and the roadway is wet. Both vehicles approach a signalized intersection. The lane in their direction of travel splits into a left turn lane and a straight/right turn lane. Subject accelerates into the straight/right turn lane while V2 decelerates in the left turn lane. As subject vehicle passes V2 on the right, V2 attempts to move into the right lane, nearly sideswiping subject vehicle on the left. Subject driver brakes and steers right.
The subject driver decelerates in the middle through lane of an interstate. A lead vehicle travels several meters ahead at constant speed. There is a long piece of wood in the middle lane ahead, obstructed from view by the lead vehicle until the lead vehicle has run over it. The subject driver does not notice the object and runs over it.
The subject driver is stopped in the dedicated right turn lane of a divided parking lot exit, preparing to turn left onto an undivided commercial road. The road surface is wet, and traffic is congested by construction and by a signalized intersection to the subject driver's right. The subject driver accelerates into the first oncoming lane, steering left, then hesitates and comes almost to a complete stop in the second oncoming lane. V2, approaching in the second oncoming lane from the subject driver's right, collides with the left side of the subject vehicle.
Subject driver is traveling down a one-lane partially divided road, while trying to put his seatbelt on. Subject begins to drift across the yellow lines, into the oncoming traffic lanes, while doing this. Subject is also distracted by looking out his left window at a construction site. While distracted, the subject does not notice the median ahead in the road, nor does he attempt to correct his position in the lane. Subject strikes the median and drives over it before continuing down the road.
The subject driver is stopped at a parking lot exit, waiting to turn right onto a highway under construction. The subject driver is looking left, to check for oncoming traffic. Once there is a gap in traffic, the subject driver turns right and clips the curb. The subject driver steers left and resumes travel as normal.
The subject driver is stopped at a traffic light on an undivided urban street. Across the intersection are several construction barriers in the subject driver's intended lane. When the light turns green, the subject driver accelerates across the intersection, steering between the barriers on the left and the curb on the right. The subject vehicle runs up onto the curb.
The subject driver turns left at a signalized intersection and becomes distracted by a construction site to the right. The subject vehicle drifts to the right and strikes the curb. The subject driver steers left and corrects within the lane.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a parkway in a residential area that runs parallel to an interstate. Subject driver moves left to enter the highway while holding and manipulating a cell phone with both hands. Subject steers with the back of the left hand. Subject vehicle is a little too far right upon entering the interstate. Subject drives over the curved edge of a median that has appeared on the right.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the left lane of an undivided commercial road. Subject driver looks out the left window at an unknown distraction, failing to notice that the roadway is curving to the right. Ahead, a raised median separates the through lanes from a left turn lane. Subject driver does not steer right in response to the curve, and the subject vehicle's front left tire strikes the median.
The subject driver decelerates in the right lane of a divided commercial road under construction. The dedicated right turn lane is blocked off with construction barrels. The subject driver negotiates around the barrel nearest to a parking lot entrance and turns right into the parking lot. The subject driver is distracted, speaking to a passenger in the adjacent seat, and hits the curb on the right side of the parking lot entrance.
The subject driver travels in the left lane of a divided road at night. The area is lit, and the subject driver rounds a curve to the left and approaches a construction zone. The right lane is closed in the construction zone, and there is a large, lit arrow directing traffic to move left. The subject driver moves into the dedicated left turn lane when the road widens, evidently thinking that it is a through lane, and passes through an uncontrolled intersection. The dedicated left turn lane disappears after the intersection, and the subject driver runs directly into the median.
The subject driver turns left at an uncontrolled intersection onto an interstate exit ramp. The turn is too wide, and the subject vehicle strikes the curb on the right side of the right. The subject driver steers left, then pulls over to the side of the road briefly before resuming travel.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the right lane of a non-divided commercial roadway in a construction zone. Subject approaches an uncontrolled intersection with a perpendicular road to the right. Subject driver starts to turn right onto this perpendicular roadway. However, the subject makes the turn too soon and strikes the curb to the right.
Subject driver is turning left off of a signalized exit ramp of an interstate. Subject driver appears to be lost in thought and turns left too tightly.  Subject vehicle runs over a median separating the two directions of traffic. Subject steers right off of the median and resumes travel.
The subject is traveling in a parking lot of a service station in between two directions of traffic on an interstate. The subject is traveling out of one parking lot and into another. There is a stop sign intersection that allows for the exit of the first parking lot and entrance, via a left turn, into the second. The driver rolls through this stop sign behind another vehicle. The subject then turns left in the intersection into the next parking lot entrance. However, while turning left, the subject clips the curb to the left. The subject did not react to this contact and instead resumed travel into the parking lot.
The subject driver is traveling on a one-lane undivided country road, approaching an uncontrolled intersection and preparing to turn left after the lead vehicle. As the lead vehicle turns left, the SV begins to turn as well. V2 is traveling at a constant speed in the oncoming lane. SV does not notice V2 because the lead vehicle was hauling wood that hindered visibility. SV brakes when he notices the oncoming vehicle, while V2 steers right before colliding with the subject and fleeing the scene of the crash. SV pulls over to the side of the road to assess the incident.
Event begins with subject driver slowing down for a line of stopped traffic at a traffic light. There are no  adverse conditions, and road conditions are good. At the start of the precipitating event a lead vehicle  (V2) is stopped at traffic light. Subject vehicle slowly rolls forward in anticipation of stopping behind V2.  Subject driver is distracted looking at a cellphone from the start of the precipitating event to the time of  impact. Subject does not look up from cellphone and rolls into the back of V2 at around two miles an  hour. Both drivers exit vehicles to inspect damage.
Subject is stopped in a dedicated left turn lane of an uncontrolled intersection, waiting to make a U-turn. Subject waits for other traffic to clear the intersection before proceeding to make the turn. It appears that three-quarters of the way through the turn, the subject driver realizes that the vehicle's turn radius is too large, and she braces herself for an impact with the right curb. Subject vehicle's front right tire climbs the curb. Subject driver continues to turn, eventually rolling off the curb.
Subject vehicle is at the end of an exit ramp from a highway with lead traffic present.  Subject driver steers right, intending to enter the right-turn only portion of the exit ramp onto the new through road. Subject looks out the left window to check traffic conditions on the destination road. While the subject is checking left, the subject vehicle begins to drift to the right, toward a curb that starts on the shoulder. Subject looks back forward but the vehicle still drifts onto the curb and bounces off.
Subject vehicle is traveling in an interchange area at night. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. There are two contiguous lanes at the time of the event: the left one is a through lane to the highway, the right one is an exit ramp back to where the subject originally came from. Subject is in the exit lane, but intends to get into the through lane. It appears that the subject is unfamiliar with the roadway. The subject does not merge into the left adjacent lane immediately. Instead he steers left over the median area between the two lanes in order to get into the through lane.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the right lane of a divided commercial roadway. Subject is distracted, talking and listening on a handheld cell phone. Subject negotiates a right curve and clips the curb on the right.
Subject is traveling in the left lane of a divided highway. Subject is traveling 77 mph in a 65 mph zone. Subject swerves to the right, either noticing an object in the road ahead (which cannot be seen in the video) or as a result of a possible tire blow-out. As a result of the subject's swerve at high speeds, the subject loses control of the vehicle and begins to rotate counterclockwise, skidding toward the center guard rail. Subject is unable to regain control before slamming into the guard rail. SV's hood scrunches up and rear window shatters. Subject vehicle ricochets off the guard rail back into travel lanes. Subject is able to steer vehicle onto the right shoulder before parking.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided residential road. While beginning to execute a right turn at an uncontrolled intersection, the subject reaches for a purse on the floor, and she holds it in her lap while still moving. Subject steers too far to the right, and the subject vehicle runs up onto a curb. Subject brings the vehicle off of the curb, then she stops and looks through the purse.
Subject is travelling on a divided highway. At the start of the event, subject changes lanes and brakes  hard after apparently missing an exit. During this, a vehicle behind subject (V2) is travelling at a constant  speed. V2 driver apparently does not see subject and slams into the back of subject. Subject vehicle is  pushed slightly off the road. V2 pulls over well ahead of subject. Both drivers exit vehicles to survey  damage.
Subject is apparently trying to pass a lead vehicle by taking a shortcut through side parking lot. Subject  flashes his high beams at the lead vehicle periodically before the event occurs. Subject makes the right  turn onto the side road, but cuts the turn too sharply, slightly clipping the side of the curb. Subject  doesn't seem to notice and continues on. 
Subject is traveling in the right lane of an interstate. The right lane is blocked off by cones for construction. Subject begins to slow down as the lead vehicle (V2) begins decelerating, and suddenly part of a construction cone appears from under V2. Subject drives over the object without responding, and another piece of the cone is sent airborne by V2. Subject brakes and steers to the right, but he runs over the piece of cone.
Subject makes a right turn onto a road approaching a construction zone. During the turn, subject vehicle  loses traction and begins to skid and rotate clockwise. Subject attempts to brake and steer left to avoid  departing the road, but vehicle briefly goes into the grass on the right side of the road. Subject must  also steer left to avoid a sign positioned on the right side of the road. Subject brings vehicle back onto  roadway and successfully avoids striking the road sign.
Subject is negotiating a curve in a construction area. Subject vehicle drifts towards the edge of the road.  Subject vehicle leaves the roadway briefly, and then comes back onto the road. Subject continues on to  destination after the event.
SV is traveling at constant on a divided three lane roadway under construction. SV approaches a piece  of barrel on the roadway. SV does not notice the piece of barrel in the roadway until impact is made. SV  then continues driving to his destination. 
Subject is passing an intersection that has construction warnings and a signalman. Ahead of subject, V3  begins to brake for a vehicle that is pulling off of the roadway. Subject slows down behind V3. Behind  subject, a pickup truck (V2) can be seen approaching at a relatively high rate of speed. V2 does appear to  brake when subject brakes, and V2 strikes the rear-end subject vehicle at a high rate of speed. This  pushes subject forward and subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V3. Subject and V2 both pull  over to inspect damage.  
Subject is speeding in the left lane of a highway construction zone at approximately 75mph. Ahead and to the right of the subject, a tractor trailer (V2) is travelling in the only other lane. Subject's lane begins to end due to construction, and construction cones are set up to gradually shrink the width of the lane, forcing vehicles to eventually move into the rightmost lane. Subject is apparently not expecting the lane to end, and he attempts to pass V2 on the left. Subject gets close to the cab of V2 as the lane begins to shrink. Subject brakes hard to get behind V2 while also avoiding the traffic cones. Subject does not brake fast enough, and the subject vehicle is forced into V2's lane. The left rear-end of the trailer strikes the front right side of the subject vehicle, and debris flies off of the SV. Subject must brake and steer to the right in order to avoid hitting the traffic cones. Subject and V2 both pull over to inspect the damage.
Subject vehicle is exiting a highway and is approaching a split in the deceleration lane. Subject does not appear to know which direction she wants to go. Subject makes the late decision to go right and must steer hard to the right. Subject departs the road briefly on the left and comes close to striking a pole in the median. Subject steers right to get back on the roadway.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a non-divided roadway with a center left turn lane through an industrial area. Subject is approaching a fork in the road where he intends to veer right. As the subject is negotiating a right curve in the road, he departs the road to the right slightly. Subject steers left too far and crosses over into the oncoming lane before steering right back into the correct lane.
SV is decelerating within his traveling lane preparing the merge onto the highway. V2 rear end strikes the subject. The subject immediately exits the vehicle to discuss the incident. 
