The subject driver is traveling in the middle lane of an interstate highway. There is significant lead and surrounding traffic that restricts speed and maneuverability. Lead traffic in the middle lane brakes. The subject driver checks his left side mirror, then moves into the left lane. While he is checking the left side mirror a second time, after committing to the lane change, lead traffic in the left lane also brakes. The subject driver brakes to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle, V2.
The subject driver passes through an intersection on a multi-lane road with considerable lead and surrounding traffic. The road surface is wet, and there are construction cones staged on the right side of the road and ahead where the right lanes split off from the main road. The subject driver is distracted, adjusting the radio and climate control and interacting with a passenger in the adjacent seat. V3, two vehicles in front of the subject vehicle, brakes for an unknown reason. V2, directly in front of the subject vehicle, brakes and swerves to the right to avoid rear-ending V3. The subject driver also brakes to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver is stopped at a traffic light in the right through lane of a divided commercial road. The right shoulder is under construction. The subject driver moves with traffic toward the intersection. The lead vehicle (V2) enters the intersection and begins to turn right, and the subject driver follows. V2 then stops short for a van backing out of a parking lot onto the new road. The subject driver brakes to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver is traveling in the left lane of an undivided two-way road. Due to construction ahead, the subject driver's direction of travel narrows from two lanes to one. After the merge point, traffic slows, and the subject driver must brake to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle (V2).
After completing left turn through intersection, subject vehicle is travellng in right lane with heavy traffic in adjacent left lane. Confronted with slow-moving construction or farm tractor immediately ahead, subject vehicle initiates lane change in response. When vehicle in adjacent lane (V2) behind which subject vehicle is attempting to maneuver brakes hard as a result of traffic conditions, subject vehicle aborts lane change, brakes and swerves back into right lane, once again traveling behind slow moving tractor.
The subject driver is traveling in stop-and-go traffic in the middle lane of a multi-lane highway  interchange area. The area is under construction. The right lane is stopped, and lead vehicles in the  subject's lane also stop intermittently to try to merge into the congested right lane. The lead vehicle  (V2) accelerates when its lead vehicle (V3) merges into the right lane. The subject driver also accelerates.  V2 brakes again, to also move into the right lane, and the subject driver must brake sharply to avoid  rear-ending V2.
The subject vehicle and lead vehicle (V2), a pickup truck towing a trailer, merge onto a highway. The subject driver is following at a distance of under 8 meters, signaling to move into the middle lane and pass V2. As she glances out the left window to check her blind spot, V2 decelerates. The subject driver brakes to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver merges onto an interstate into a congested construction area. He appears drowsy. The road surface is wet. The right lane is closed ahead, and all traffic, including the subject driver, is in the left lane. Lead traffic brakes, and the subject driver must brake to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle (V2).
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) are approaching a green light in the left lane of a one-way urban street. As V2 enters the intersection and begins to turn left, a jogger enters the crosswalk, coming toward V2 and the subject vehicle. V2 stops abruptly to cede the right of way. The subject driver does not notice the driver, and accelerates. When the subject driver notices that V2 has stopped, she brakes and steers right, and is able to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject has just completed a left turn through an intersection onto a dry, undivided business-area road with a center turn lane.  It is nighttime, the road is well-lit, and there is no adverse weather.  Traffic is light (LOS B).  There is crosswalk up ahead, marked by yellow signs and flashing lights.  Subject is interacting with a passenger in the adjacent seat throughout the journey.  Subject looks in the right-side mirror and changes from the left to the rightmost of two lanes while talking to passenger (it is unclear whether Subject signals prior to lane change).  Subject changes into lane two in front of Vehicle 2, traveling at around 30 MPH. While changing lanes, Subject fails to notice the pedestrian crossing the crosswalk and must brake hard to avoid striking her.  Upon seeing the oncoming car, the pedestrian stops in the crosswalk and appears frustrated.  Subject points backwards to indicate that the fault lies with V2, apparently for not allowing Subject Vehicle room to change lanes.
Subject is driving on a dry, divided highway during daylight hours.  There is no adverse weather and traffic is moderately heavy (LOS C). Vehicle 2 is directly ahead of Subject in the leftmost of three available lanes (there is an open HOV lane to the subject's left but an overhead sign prohibits entry).  Subject is singing along with the radio throughout the event and, shortly before the incident, adjusts the radio volume. Additionally, Subject is traveling around 67 MPH in a 60 MPH zone.  Traffic is approaching a construction zone and V2 slows.  Subject is slow to react and brakes sharply in reaction.  Subject then glances in the rearview mirror to check the distance from rear vehicle.  Upon turning attention back to forward roadway, Subject notices that V2 has slowed significantly.  Subject slams on the brakes in order to avoid colliding with V2. 
Subject is driving on a dry, undivided road in a business area near a university during daylight hours.  There is no adverse weather and traffic is moderate (LOS C).  Vehicle 2 is directly ahead of the subject in the leftmost of two lanes. Subject is looking through the driver-side window when V2 stops for pedestrians crossing the crosswalk ahead.  Subject's attention returns to forward roadway and driver brakes sharply in order to avoid colliding with V2. 
Subject is driving on a dry, divided freeway in lit darkness.  There is no adverse weather and traffic is stop-and-go (LOS F).  Vehicle 2 is lead vehicle in the leftmost of three lanes. Subject is interacting with passengers in the back and front seats as well as eating and drinking.  V2 is stopped at a significant distance in traffic and, as Subject Vehicle approaches, Subject is decelerating and reaching into a fast food bag in the console to the right. Upon returning attention to the forward roadway, Subject realizes V2 is closer than previously assumed and brakes hard in order to avoid colliding with the lead vehicle. 
Subject is driving on a dry, divided freeway during daylight hours.  There is no adverse weather and, for a long stretch of time prior to the event, traffic has been extremely light (LOS A2).  Subject is speeding (80 MPH in a 70 MPH zone) and has possibly set the cruise control.  Subject also seems somewhat lost in thought. Vehicle 2 is directly ahead of Subject in the leftmost of two lanes and V2 begins to slow, possibly in reaction to a third vehicle changing lanes ahead of it.  Subject is slow to react to V2's braking and must brake hard in order to avoid colliding with the lead vehicle.  This causes Subject Vehicle to fishtail slightly before driver regains control and realigns the car.  Collision is avoided. 
Subject is driving on a dry, divided freeway during daylight hours.  There is no adverse weather and traffic is moderate (LOS C).  Subject has just changed from the leftmost to the rightmost of three lanes in one movement. The lead vehicle in the right lane quickly changes into the middle lane. The vehicle now directly ahead of Subject, Vehicle 2, is decelerating in preparation to exit.  This surprises the Subject Driver, causing him to brake sharply and swerve right to avoid colliding with V2. 
Subject is driving on a wet, divided highway during daylight hours.  There is light rain and moderate traffic (LOS C). Vehicle 2 is directly ahead of the lead vehicle in the middle of three lanes; the right lane is an exit-only lane and the left is marked with arrows indicating the lane merges with the middle lane in a few feet.  V2 slows, probably in reaction to vehicles merging ahead.  Subject looks through the passenger-side window at Vehicle 3, behind and to the right of Subject, and returns attention to forward roadway, but seems somewhat lost in thought.  Subject notices V2's deceleration and brakes sharply and swerves to the left, avoiding collision with the lead vehicle.  The subject encroaches on V3's lane and V3 has to brake and steer to the left to avoid the subject.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) travel in the middle lane of an interstate, approaching both a construction zone and an interchange area. V2 brakes in response to lead traffic conditions. The subject driver brakes from roughly 65 miles per hour to roughly 20 miles per hour and veers into the right lane, successfully avoiding a collision with V2.
Subject is driving on a dry, divided highway at night.  Traffic is heavy and there are frequent stops (LOS F).  There is no adverse weather and the road is well-lit.   Vehicle 2 is directly ahead of the subject in the leftmost of three lanes.  Subject is holding a cellphone in the right hand in front of the wheel and appears to be texting as traffic moves forward.  V2 slows to a stop and Subject initially fails to notice.  Subject Driver looks up and is forced to make a hard brake to avoid rear-ending V2.  The force of the stop throws the subject driver forward substantially.
The subject driver is stopped in the left lane in a queue of vehicles at a traffic light. V2 is stopped in the right adjacent lane, slightly ahead. The subject driver is distracted, texting throughout the event, and when the light turns green, the subject driver accelerates more slowly than lead and surrounding traffic. V2 moves into the left lane in front of the subject driver, then brakes in response to lead traffic. The subject driver initially fails to notice, then brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) travel in the left lane of an interstate in heavy traffic. The subject driver never travels faster than 40 miles per hour during the event. The subject driver is texting, looking away from the road, when V2 brakes in response to lead conditions. The subject driver brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) are in the left lane of an interstate in stop-and-go traffic. The subject driver is distracted, rummaging through a bag in the adjacent seat as if looking for something. V2 rolls forward, and the subject also rolls forward, but fails to notice that V2 comes to a stop again almost immediately. The subject driver looks up in time to brake and avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) are traveling in the right lane of an interstate in rainy conditions. Traffic is heavy; the subject driver never travels faster than 35 miles per hour during the event. V2 brakes in response to conditions ahead. The subject driver brakes, the brakes lock up, and the subject vehicle skids forward, nearly rear-ending V2.
Subject driver (SV) travels on a divided, uncontrolled access highway. Subject is speaking on a cell phone in her left hand for the entire event. Traffic is moderate; in the left lane, SV's speed and maneuverability are impacted, but not totally restricted. Traffic in the right lane is heavier than traffic in the left lane before an intersection. There is construction occurring off the road to the right, but this is not restricting the traffic flow. The road lanes increase from two to five: one dedicated left-turn lane, three through lanes, and one dedicated right-turn lane. There are two lead vehicles in front of SV: V2 is in directly in front of SV, and V3 is in front of V2. All three vehicles plan to merge into the lanes to the left. V2 merges without signaling, and SV follows closely behind. Still in the through lane, V3 signals and merges while V2 is already close behind in the left lane. V2 brakes hard to avoid hitting V3. SV must also brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. All three brake for the traffic signal ahead. 
The subject driver travels in the left lane of a three-lane divided road. The area ahead is under construction, and signs announce that the left lane will be closing. The subject driver moves into the middle lane, accelerating. A vehicle (V2) in the right lane accelerates and moves into the middle lane to pass a slower-moving lead vehicle, nearly sideswiping the subject vehicle. The subject driver brakes and steers left into the closing left lane.
The subject driver is traveling in the right lane of a commercial road in rainy conditions. Upon realizing that the right lane will be closed for construction ahead, the subject driver decelerates and begins to move into the left adjacent lane. Vehicle 2, slightly behind the subject vehicle in the left lane, accelerates and nearly sideswipes the subject vehicle. The subject driver becomes angry and slows almost to a stop, then changes lanes after V2 has passed.
Subject vehicle (SV) is within a school zone and is stopped at a signalized intersection with the intention of making a left turn. There are construction signs and cones present, but it does not affect the flow of traffic. The lead vehicle (V2) is also stopped with the intention of making a left turn. The traffic light turns green, but it is not a green arrow. V2 accelerates slightly and waits for the oncoming traffic to clear before executing the left turn, and SV follows behind closely. The oncoming traffic clears and V2 and SV accelerate again. Subject becomes distracted with an external object to the left. While subject is distracted, V2 is stopped by a crossing guard allowing children to cross the street just before exiting the intersection. Subject looks forward to see V2 is stopped in the middle of the intersection. Subject brakes hard and steers right, managing to avoid rear-ending V2. SV comes to a complete stop as V2 clears the intersection.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels along a divided multi-lane road of a commercial area in daylight with very light traffic. Subject is talking on a cellphone in her right hand. SV approaches a signalized intersection with a red light and begins to decelerate. Subject merges into the dedicated right-turn lane with the intention of making a right turn at the light. Another vehicle (V2) is exiting an adjacent parking lot on the right and is about to cross SV's path in the right-turn lane. V2 intends to go across the lanes to make a left turn at the signalized intersection. V2 enters the dedicated right-turn lane as SV approaches V2. Both vehicles brake hard to avoid a collision. Subject does not put down the cellphone until after the incident.
Subject vehicle is traveling in daylight on a highway's deceleration lane in a construction zone. Traffic is stop-and-go up ahead. Subject driver talks to a passenger in the adjacent seat and does not immediately notice that the lead vehicle (V2) has come to a complete stop. Subject driver must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. The vehicle behind subject vehicle (V3) must also brake hard to avoid rear-ending subject vehicle.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) travel through a construction zone in which oncoming traffic has been routed through the left through lanes. When traffic patterns return to normal, the subject driver moves into the reopened left lane, preparing to move into the center two-way left turn lane. V2 brakes abruptly, then starts to make a U-turn from the right lane in front of the subject driver. The subject driver nearly hits the side of V2, but comes to a complete stop to avoid the collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling in heavy rain in the left of two through lanes on a divided road through a business area. It is night, and the area is lit. Subject moves into the right lane to go around a slower moving lead vehicle (V2). As SV and V2 pass through an intersection with a green light, V2's tires splash water onto the windshield of the SV, blocking visibility for a moment. Subject brakes hard and steers left as the vehicle slides and rotates counterclockwise. Eventually, the subject regains control of the vehicle and continues driving.
The subject driver travels on an undivided commercial road with a center two-way left turn lane. The subject driver decelerates and moves into the center two-way turn lane in order to turn left into a business parking lot. A pedestrian is crossing the parking lot entrance; the subject driver fails to notice and begins to turn. Halfway through the maneuver, the subject driver notices the pedestrian and brakes sharply. The pedestrian sees the subject vehicle and backs away. The subject vehicle comes to a complete stop several feet from the pedestrian; the pedestrian trips while backing away and falls over.
SV and V2 are stopped at an intersection in the left dedicated turning lane and adjacent through lane respectively. The light turns green and SV begins to turn left at the intersection while V2 waits a second before accelerating forward. SV  turns right to enter the through lane currently occupied by V2. V2 steers right while SV brakes and steers left to avoid a collision.
The subject driver enters an interstate and begins checking traffic in order to merge left. There is construction equipment ahead on the right shoulder, and the entrance lane is beginning to transition into an exit lane. Traffic ahead in the exit lane stops, and the lead vehicle, V2, brakes. The subject driver brakes and steers onto the right shoulder to avoid rear-ending V2. The following vehicle, V3, brakes and steers onto the right shoulder to avoid rear-ending the subject vehicle.
The subject driver is traveling in the middle lane of a divided highway. There are construction cones on both shoulders. The subject driver moves into the right lane, approaching an exit ramp. V2, ahead and in the middle lane, attempts to move into the right lane, without signalling, in front of the subject vehicle. The subject driver brakes to avoid a collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling through a commercial area on an undivided two-way road with significant construction. Lanes in both directions are blocked off by construction barrels. The remaining road is comprised of one through lane in each direction of travel, and a dedicated left-turn lane in subject vehicle's direction of travel for a four-way signalized intersection. Subject vehicle accelerates in the through lane while approaching the intersection, intending to proceed through the green signal. The light turns yellow just before the subject driver enters the intersection, and subject continues through in an attempt to beat the signal. A van from the opposite direction makes a left turn in front of the subject driver, followed immediately by another vehicle (Vehicle 2) that the van had blocked from subject's view. Vehicle 2 is also trying to make a left turn and beat the signal. The light turns red as subject vehicle and Vehicle 2 enter the intersection. Vehicle 2 accelerates through the left turn and subject brakes to avoid striking Vehicle 2. Subject finishes crossing the intersection and pulls between the barrels into the closed lane on the other side to check for damage. There are no damages, and no other vehicles are affected by this near-crash incident.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) travel on an undivided commercial road with a center two-way left turn lane. V2 moves into the center two-way left turn lane. The subject driver maintains a constant speed and looks briefly at a construction zone on the right. While the subject driver is looking away, V2 steers back into its initial lane in front of the subject driver, intending to make a wide left turn. The subject driver looks forward, brakes, and steers onto the right shoulder to avoid a collision, coming to a complete stop as V2 executes the turn.
The subject driver approaches a construction zone in the dedicated right turn lane of a divided road. The subject driver becomes distracted, adjusting the climate control. V2, ahead and in the right lane, appears to have a moment of indecision before moving into the dedicated right turn lane in front of the subject driver. The subject driver looks up and brakes to avoid rear-ending V2. V2 accelerates.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) approach a signalized intersection on an undivided road, passing a school and a construction zone blocking off the right lane. V2 begins to decelerate for the intersection very early. The subject driver seems to be absorbed in thought, and does not immediately notice that V2 has slowed. When he realizes how quickly he is approaching V2, the subject driver brakes and steers right to avoid a collision.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels along a divided, three-lane road in daylight. Traffic is moderate, but SV is far behind the next lead vehicle. Traffic cones are present on both sides of the road, but it does not affect the traffic flow. SV is in the middle lane and approaches a signalized intersection with a green light. The left lane becomes a dedicated left-turn lane. The last vehicle in queue in the left lane (V2) signals to merge into the middle lane. Subject does not notice the V2's signal and does not decelerate to allow a merge. V2 crosses the solid white line and cuts off SV. SV brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is the lead vehicle stopped in the dedicated right turn lane at an intersection in a construction zone controlled by a flagman. V2 is the second vehicle queued while stopped on the perpendicular roadway to the right. Subject driver is waved through by the flagman and begins to make a right turn, with only the right hand on the wheel. A cell phone falls off of the dashboard during the turn.  Subject driver takes the right hand off the wheel in an attempt to catch the falling phone. Subject does not immediately move the left hand to the wheel, causing a loss of control in the middle of the turn while subject vehicle is aimed at V2. Subject driver grabs the wheel to complete the turn before hitting V2 on the side.
Subject is traveling through a commercial area on an undivided road in daylight. The road is under construction, and narrows from two contiguous lanes to one; subject is initially in the right lane. Subject drives directly behind another vehicle (V3). The vehicle in the left lane (V2) accelerates past subject and V3 as the left lane begins to disappear. V2 attempts to move over in front of V3. V3 accelerates, not allowing V2 to pass. V2 then tries to move over into subject's lane between subject and V3. Subject brakes to avoid sideswiping V2, but accelerates to prevent V2 from merging. V2 changes lanes after the subject vehicle has passed.
Subject vehicle is waiting for a red light in the dedicated left turn lane of a divided highway. The left arrow turns green and subject proceeds through the intersection to enter the left lane of a roadway under construction. V2 makes a right turn on red from an opposing lane of the highway and enters the right lane adjacent to subject vehicle. V2 immediately attempts to change into the left lane, nearly sideswiping subject vehicle. Subject brakes hard and V2 steers right to reenter the right lane.
The subject driver travels through a construction zone in the right lane of an undivided commercial road. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. V2, stopped in a parking lot entrance to the subject driver's right, begins to turn left onto the road in front of the subject driver. The subject driver brakes and steers left to avoid hitting V2. V2 brakes, coming to a complete stop. The subject driver steers into the empty oncoming lane, passes V2, and steers back into the original lane.
The subject driver is traveling at between 60 and 65 miles per hour in the right lane of a multi-lane road under construction. As the subject vehicle begins to pass V2, in the left adjacent lane, V2 starts to move into the subject vehicle's lane, nearly sideswiping the subject vehicle. The subject driver brakes and honks the horn at V2, and V2 brakes and swerves back into the left lane.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels along an undivided, multi-lane business road in daylight with construction cones along the median. SV approaches an uncontrolled intersection with opposing vehicles turning left into a parking lot. Subject maintains acceleration thinking the opposing vehicle will yield to SV before turning. The opposing vehicle proceeds anyway, and both vehicles brake to avoid colliding with each other. SV comes to a stop to allow the other vehicle to complete the turn. Neither vehicle is damaged from this near-crash event.
Subject is driving in the leftmost lane of a two-lane divided highway.  There are intermittent construction barrels on the side of the road and a piece of construction equipment in the median, behind concrete barriers.  Subject is interacting with passengers in the front and back seats throughout the event.  Traffic slows ahead and the lead vehicle, V2, brakes suddenly.  Subject brakes sharply and narrowly avoids rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the left lane of an undivided road in a residential area. V2 travels in the adjacent right lane, slightly ahead of subject vehicle and behind V3.  V3 decelerates in preparation for a right turn into a driveway.  V2 brakes and attempts to go around V3 by steering left into subject's lane. To avoid a collision, subject driver brakes and steers left, encroaching on the oncoming lane. V2 moves back into the right lane.
Subject is driving in the rightmost of two lanes on an elevated highway when traffic starts to slow ahead. Subject begins to brake, but is distracted by the following vehicle, Vehicle 2, which does not seem to be braking fast enough.  Subject is looking at V2 in the rearview mirror upon approaching the lead vehicle.  Upon returning attention to the forward roadway, Subject realizes the vehicle has not slowed adequately and must brake sharply to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle.  V2 narrowly avoids a collision with the subject vehicle as well.
The subject driver interacts with a passenger while negotiating a curve through a construction zone in the right lane of a multi-lane road at dusk. It is raining and the road surface is wet. The middle lane is blocked off by construction barrels. At the end of the curve, the middle lane opens as the right lane becomes blocked by construction barrels. The subject driver brakes and steers left to avoid hitting a construction barrel.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) approach a signalized intersection in the left through lane in daylight. The right adjacent lane is blocked off with construction barrels. V2 moves forward with the queue of vehicles ahead, then brakes abruptly. The subject driver is distracted, looking down at a cell phone and texting. The subject driver notes V2's forward movement and accelerates, but fails to notice that V2 brakes almost immediately. Upon returning her attention to the roadway, the subject driver must brake sharply to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver is stopped in the center two-way left turn lane of an undivided commercial road, waiting for oncoming traffic to clear in order to turn left into a fast food restaurant parking lot. V2, traveling slowly in the far oncoming lane, turns into the parking lot. The subject driver executes the left turn immediately after V2 and must brake to avoid rear-ending V2. The subject driver also miscalculated the turn and drove over the curb and sidewalk adjacent to the parking lot entrance, rather than through the parking lot entrance.
Subject is traveling in the rightmost of two through lanes on a divided highway in daylight.  There is construction on the highway and traffic is somewhat heavy (around LOS D).  Vehicle 2 is in the adjacent right lane and as both vehicles approach a traffic signal, V2 changes into Subject's lane with the intention of reaching the left turn lane.  V2's lane change cuts off Subject Vehicle, requiring Subject to brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending V2.  
The subject driver and following vehicle (V3) approach a signalized intersection in the dedicated right turn lane of a divided road near an apartment building. The subject driver decelerates and turns right onto an undivided road under construction. On the new road, the lane in the subject driver's direction of travel is blocked off by construction signs and orange cones, creating a temporary through lane in the oncoming dedicated left turn lane for vehicles coming from the intersecting roadway. V2, an oncoming SUV in the dedicated left turn lane, brakes and steers right into the oncoming through lane to avoid a collision with the subject vehicle. The subject driver brakes and steers right. V3 follows the subject vehicle through the intersection and brakes to avoid rear-ending the subject vehicle.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels along a divided, three-lane interstate in daylight. The posted speed limit is 55 MPH, and subject travels about 68 MPH in the middle lane and merges into the right through lane. The immediate lead vehicle in the right through lane (V2) is travelling slower than SV, and subject brakes accordingly. Both SV and V2 intends to merge into the adjacent exit ramp on the right. V2 has the merge signal on and merges into the traffic-heavy exit ramp. After V2 merges, subject looks over his right shoulder to see if there are any following vehicles in the exit lane. While subject is turned around, V2 begins to decelerate due to lead traffic. Subject merges, but is still travelling much faster than the lead traffic. Subject brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver travels in the right through lane of a divided commercial road. Ahead, the left adjacent lane is closed for construction, and several warning signs mark the change in traffic pattern. V2 decelerates in response to merging traffic. The subject driver does not immediately notice, and must brake sharply to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle (SV) travels in the middle lane of a divided, three-lane highway in daylight. It is raining heavily, and the roadway surface is wet. Subject is travelling approximately 71 MPH and approaches a construction zone with a posted speed limit of 55 MPH. The immediate lead vehicle in the middle lane (V2) begins to decelerate due to slow-moving lead traffic. Seeing V2 decelerate, subject tries to brake, but slightly loses control of the vehicle and skids forward, staying in lane. Subject regains control and continues braking to keep a considerable distance between SV and V2. Both vehicles slow down and continue slowly into the construction zone.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) decelerate in the left lane of an interstate. Traffic in the left lane is heavier than traffic in the adjacent lanes. Approaching V2, the subject driver glances in the rearview and right mirrors to check for traffic before changing lanes. While the subject driver is looking away, V2 comes almost to a complete stop. The subject driver looks ahead again and realizes how close the subject vehicle and V2 are, and brakes while changing lanes to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver turns right onto a divided commercial road and moves into the left lane. V2 turns right from a parking lot exit and accelerates. When V2 is slightly ahead and the subject vehicle is in V2's blind spot, V2 attempts to move into the left lane. The subject driver brakes to avoid a collision, and V2 accelerates and steers back into the right lane.
The subject driver is stopped at a green light in the left lane of an undivided commercial street under construction. The subject driver waits, yielding to oncoming traffic in order to turn left. There are two oncoming lanes; in the left oncoming lane, traffic is congested behind a vehicle yielding to turn left and obstructs the subject driver's view of the right oncoming lane. The subject driver starts to turn left, failing to see V2 approaching in the right oncoming lane until V2 is in the intersection. The subject driver brakes to avoid hitting V2, coming to a complete stop. V2 attempts no evasive maneuvers.
The subject driver makes a left turn into a parking lot from the dedicated left turn lane of an intermittently divided commercial road. V2 turns right from within the parking lot boundaries toward the parking lot exit, encroaching on the oncoming parking lot entrance. Trees and bushes obstruct the subject driver's view of V2, and vice versa. Both vehicles continue trajectories from wide turns and nearly collide head-on. Both vehicles brake and steer right to avoid a collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a medium-density urban road with vehicles parallel parked to the right of  subject vehicle's lane. Subject driver gets distracted looking outside of the driver's window and does  not immediately notice when a pedestrian steps out of a parked vehicle to the right.  Subject driver  looks ahead and immediately brakes and swerves to the left to avoid striking the pedestrian.
Subject is slightly over 3 hours into a long trip, driving on an interstate with two lanes in subject's  direction of travel. It is night and it is raining. Subject is initially in the left lane, and a truck (V2) is in the right lane, ahead of subject vehicle. V2 moves into the left lane in front of subject, and subject  responds by driving onto the wide shoulder, possibly mistaking it for a lane. Subject drives on the  shoulder for about 350 meters, appearing to attempt to pass V2, without realizing it isn't a lane until  construction barrels appear in front of subject vehicle. Subject brakes and steers back into the left  lane to avoid the barrels, but V2 is right next to subject vehicle. V2 is nearly sideswiped, but swerves  to the right to avoid a collision, while subject slows down significantly to avoid hitting the construction  barrels.
Subject is traveling below the speed limit before entering a construction zone ahead. The pavement is wet. V2 is following closely behind the SV. Subject appears upset that V2 is so close behind and apparently trying to make her move faster. When there is a clear opening to the left, V2 crosses a double yellow line and illegally begins to pass the SV. Subject gets angry and glances frequently at V2 in the left mirror. While the subject is looking at the left mirror, the subject vehicle veers to the left and nearly sideswipes V2 as it passes.
The subject driver, lead vehicle (V2) and following vehicle (V3) enter a construction zone on an undivided rural road with a center two-way left turn lane. V2 decelerates in response to construction-related traffic controls ahead. The subject driver, distracted by browsing on a hand-held cell phone, does not immediately notice. Upon noticing, the subject driver must brake severely to avoid rear-ending V2. V3 brakes and steers to the right, onto the shoulder, to avoid rear-ending the subject vehicle.
The subject driver approaches an uncontrolled intersection in the second lane from the left of a divided road; the lanes to the right are closed for construction. It is night, the area is lit, and the road surface is wet. V2 makes a U-turn from the left oncoming lane into both the subject driver's lane and the left adjacent lane. The subject driver brakes to avoid hitting V2. V2 completes the turn and centers in the left adjacent lane.
The subject driver travels in the left lane of a divided commercial road, speaking to a passenger in the adjacent seat. Traffic becomes increasingly congested due to construction ahead in the right lane. V2, ahead and in the left lane, comes to a stop at the end of a queue of stopped vehicles. The subject driver, looking at an unknown external distraction to the left, does not immediately notice. Upon noticing, the subject driver brakes sharply to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) approach a signalized intersection in the left lane of a divided highway. It is night, and the area is lit. There are several traffic cones to the left, and an uncontrolled exit ramp to the right. The light turns red, and V2 decelerates rapidly. The subject driver, distracted by biting his nails, does not immediately notice. Upon noticing, the subject driver brakes sharply to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver negotiates a curve to the right approaching a signalized intersection in the right lane of a commercial road under construction. At the intersection, paint lines do not correspond to distinct turn lanes, possibly due to the construction. The subject driver's turn is insufficiently sharp, and the subject vehicle encroaches on the left adjacent lane, nearly sideswiping V2 as V2 makes the same right turn. The subject driver brakes and steers left to merge in front of V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a very low speed (barely one mph) on a university campus in the left lane of a divided roadway. Traffic is heavy and moving slowly as vehicles enter the left lane due to construction ahead blocking off the right lane. V2 is in the right adjacent lane, attempting to change into subject vehicle's lane, without activating the left turn signal. V2 tries to maneuver into the gap between the subject vehicle and the lead vehicle, but subject driver does not make room. V2 continues to cross the lane line that separates subject's and V2's lanes, cutting off subject vehicle. Subject brakes to allow V2 to maneuver completely into the lane.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) approach a signalized intersection, traveling downhill through a school zone in the right lane of an undivided residential road. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. There is moderate lead and surrounding traffic. The light turns yellow, and V2 brakes. The subject driver brakes, the brakes lock, and the subject vehicle skids forward. The subject driver is able to come to a complete stop and avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject driver is stopped at a red light on a divided road. It is night, the area is lit, and the road surface is wet. The subject driver is distracted; the passenger in the adjacent seat is holding a cell phone up to the subject driver's face so that the subject driver can speak into it. When the light turns green, the subject driver accelerates across the intersection. V2, in the left adjacent lane, also enters the intersection and drifts right, nearly sideswiping the subject vehicle. The subject driver steers right. V2 does not appear to attempt any evasive maneuvers.
The subject driver is stopped at a red light, waiting to turn left onto an undivided street on a university campus. It is raining, and the road surface is wet. V2 is stopped across the intersection in the oncoming lane. When the light turns green, V2 enters the intersection, intending to pass straight through. The subject driver also accelerates, turning left and cutting across V2's path. The subject driver notices V2 and brakes, sounding the horn. V2 brakes and steers left around the subject vehicle.
Subject vehicle and V2 are both entering a highway through two separate entrance ramps. V2 is on an exit ramp to the subject's left that must yield for the SV's ramp. SV and V2 both meet where V2's lane ends and V2 has to merge. SV must brake to avoid a collision, and V2 also brakes allowing the SV to move ahead.
Subject vehicle is traveling through a construction zone at night, with lanes blocked off by construction barrels. The subject driver may be distracted as she is communicating with an adjacent passenger during the event. When the vehicle approaches a break in the barrels, which opens up two lanes to the right of the SV, the subject driver makes a quick decision to change lanes and turn right. As the SV is changing lanes, a construction barrel is almost hit, but the SV swerves to the right and successfully avoids hitting the barrel.
The SV is traveling on an interstate with adverse, rainy conditions and a wet roadway. He appears to be unfamiliar with the roadway because the adjacent seat passenger has a GPS and alerts the SV when they are about to miss their exit. The SV appropriately puts on their turn signal to change lanes to the right  and merge onto the exit ramp, but V2 is accelerating faster than SV probably expected. SV begins to change lanes to the right, and V2 is in position E to the immediate back right of SV. SV continues with the lane change and nearly sideswipes V2. Once V2 has passed SV, SV almost runs off the road at the  divider separating the exit ramp from the travel through lanes. SV jerks the wheel to the right to avoid an end departure.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed in the left lane of a two-lane divided highway. V2 is in the right adjacent lane and begins to slow down to move into the left lane. V2 activates left turn signal and moves in front of the SV at a slower speed than the subject is traveling. SV has to brake and steer right to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed on a two-lane divided road when the lead vehicle begins to decelerate due to traffic ahead. SV does not notice the change in traffic speed because he has turned his head to the left and then to the right to look out his windows. Once the subject brings his attention back to the traffic, he realizes that V2 has almost stopped ahead of him. SV brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2 successfully.
The subject driver accelerates around a curve to the right, approaching an uncontrolled intersection. As the subject driver nears the intersection, V2, a pickup truck in the oncoming lane, turns left across the subject driver's path. The subject driver brakes and steers left to avoid hitting V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the left lane at night, on a divided road in a business area. Subject driver appears angry at V2 due to events that occurred before the incident. Both SV and V2 also appear to be driving aggressively with each other periodically. V2 is in the lane adjacent right and begins slowing down. As SV is approaching, V2 activates left turn signal and moves into SV lane. V2 cuts off SV, and SV has to brake hard to avoid a rear-end collision.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) approach a signalized intersection in the right lane of a divided road near a hospital. V2 begins to decelerate in response to the traffic signal as the subject driver glances down at a cell phone. The subject driver looks up and brakes to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in moderate traffic on an interstate. Subject driver talks with passengers while bright sunlight is in subject's eyes. The lead vehicle (V2) accelerates. Traffic becomes more congested and V2 begins to decelerate. Subject driver does not immediately notice V2 slowing down and must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
The subject vehicle is traveling on a non-divided roadway in rainy conditions. The subject is approaching an intersection in the dedicated left turn lane. The subject is accelerating in an attempt to beat the signal change, however, the light turns red before he enters the intersection and the subject still executes the turn. As he enters the new roadway, the subject cuts into the oncoming traffic lanes and then moves back into his lane. While he is finishing the turn, the subject loses control due to excessive speed. The subject then tries to steer right as an evasive maneuver. When the subject does regain control, the car starts to skid the other way. The subject must then steer left to avoid departing the roadway. After the event, the subject resumes travel at a slower rate of speed.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided road adjacent to a church parking lot. The area is under construction, and the oncoming lane is blocked by construction vehicles. A signalized intersection is ahead, and traffic is moving slowly.  There are construction cones set up on the center double yellow line, and the road splits from one through lane to one through lane and a left turn lane. V2 ahead enters the left turn lane where traffic is backed up. Subject vehicle continues in the through lane, but as it approaches V2, V2 begins to maneuver right, back into the through lane. SV must brake hard to avoid a side swipe collision, while V2 gently brakes before continuing with the maneuver.
Subject vehicle is sitting in very heavy construction traffic at the front of a queue at a s ignalized intersection. The light turns green for subject, but V2, a large flatbed truck in the  oncoming lanes hauling heavy construction equipment, continues through its red light and  appears to be making a right turn across subject's path but makes it very wide, possibly  leading the subject to believe that it intended to turn left instead.  Subject begins to enter  the intersection when it appears that V2 will shortly complete its expected left turn.  V2 instead executes a very wide right turn and comes back across subject's path while  both vehicles are in the intersection. Subject brakes quickly to avoid a collision with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed on a four-lane divided highway. The SV is traveling in the right lane behind a Transit Bus (V2). As the SV begins to pass the bus by changing into the left lane, V2, still slightly ahead, also decides to change into the left lane, unware of the SV's position. Subject brakes hard to avoid colliding with V2, while V2 continues to change lanes with no evasive maneuver.
The subject driver and lead vehicle (V2) travel in the right lane of a congested highway at night. The area is not lit. V2 brakes in response to lead traffic conditions. The subject driver brakes and steers right into the unoccupied merge lane to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a four-lane roadway in an urban area approaching a tunnel. It is night and the roadway is lit. It is raining lightly and the pavement is wet. Subject looks over her left shoulder to see if the roadway is clear for her to change lanes. Subject begins to move to the left when she notices traffic cones dividing her lane from the destination lane. Subject jerks the wheel back to the right to avoid hitting the cones and stays in the original lane.
Subject vehicle is traveling with traffic ahead on a two-lane road approaching an intersection. A traffic signal that controls the cross walk is ahead, but it is green throughout the event. V2, ahead, is traveling at a constant speed, but must brake for a car pulling out at the next intersection. SV is late to realize this sudden brake and must brake hard to avoid a rear-end collision with V2.
The subject is traveling on a divided interstate through an interchange area. The subject is in the far left through lane. There is another lane to the left that is ending ahead. The subject is talking to the other passengers in the vehicle and is not paying attention to the road ahead. The lead vehicle (V2) starts to decelerate rapidly. When the subject notices this, she also starts braking hard. The subject's brakes lock up severely and she begins to skid toward the lead vehicle. V2 appears to notice the situation, as they accelerate and move into the left adjacent lane as an evasive maneuver. A collision is successfully avoided.
The subject has just turned onto a non-divided roadway through a business area. The subject is following a lead vehicle (V2) a little too closely while talking on her cell phone. The lead vehicle begins to decelerate in response to traffic ahead. The subject is late noticing this deceleration and must brake hard to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle. V2 does not appear to react to the situation and both vehicles resume travel after the event.
Subject has just changed into the right lane of an undivided two-lane road and is decelerating with traffic ahead. V2 is directly in front of the SV and begins to decelerate at a faster rate while the subject is distracted, looking out the driver side window. Subject turns back around and notices V2 has stopped and must brake hard in order to avoid a collision.
Subject is traveling in the rightmost lane of a three-lane undivided road in a business area with moderate traffic. The subject is accelerating through an intersection and there is a parking lot entrance just past the intersection. V2 is in the SV's left adjacent lane, slightly ahead. Suddenly, V2 activates its right turn signal and turns across the SV's lane into the parking lot entrance. Subject has to brake hard in order to avoid striking the passenger side of V2.
Event begins with the subject driver traveling on a one-way street near a college. There is a bus parked ahead on the right letting people out at a crosswalk. Subject driver steers left to pass the parked bus. At the start of the precipitating event, a pedestrian can be seen entering the roadway from the right of the camera. The bus is blocking the view of the pedestrian from the subject driver. When the subject notices the pedestrian crossing she brakes hard. The pedestrian also stops to avoid being hit.
The subject is traveling on a divided highway through a business area with light traffic. There are construction cones on either side of the subject. The cones to the left are blocking off a through lane. The subject is in the dedicated right turn lane and is approaching an intersection. V2 is in the adjacent right turn lane and is also planning to turn right. As the subject enters the intersection and begins to turn right, V2 begins to move into the subject's lane. The subject must brake and steer left to avoid a collision with V2.
The subject is traveling on a divided roadway through a business area. The subject is in a dedicated left turn lane and is stopped at an intersection behind several lead vehicles. When the lead vehicles begin to move forward through the intersection, the subject also accelerates. However, the lead vehicle suddenly decelerates to a brief stop. The subject doesn't notice this deceleration because he is looking out his left window at something outside the vehicle. When the subject's attention returns to the roadway, he brakes hard to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle.
The subject driver is decelerating along a two-lane divided roadway in a business area, preparing to enter the dedicated right turn lane.  The subject vehicle drifts into the bike lane at this point, preparing to pass the lead vehicle, V2, just before she enters the dedicated right turn lane. However, V2 begins to change into the same turn lane without signaling, intending to enter a gas station parking lot. Subject driver brakes hard and steers right to avoid impact with V2, while V2 continues into the parking lot unaware of the SV's presence.
The subject vehicle is traveling on a non-divided roadway through a construction zone. The subject is traveling around 50 mph and following the lead vehicle (V2) too closely. V2 starts to decelerate rapidly to pull off the road and onto the shoulder to the right. The subject has to brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. The subject's brakes lock up and he skids longitudinally. The subject is able to avert a crash with V2. V3, behind the SV, also has to brake hard to avoid rear-ending the subject.
Subject vehicle is traveling in moderate traffic in the right through lane of a divided highway with construction ahead. V2, in a dedicated right turn lane adjacent to the SV's lane, activates its left turn signal, intending to merge into the SV's lane. Subject decelerates but does not leave enough space for V2 to move into. V2 begins to attempt a lane change and briefly brakes. Subject brakes hard to avoid clipping the back of V2. Subject continues at a lower speed to allow V2 into the lane.
Subject vehicle is accelerating along a one-way four-lane road in an urban area approaching an uncontrolled intersection. As the SV approaches the intersection, V2 (located to the left on the perpendicular street) turns left in front of the subject. V2 shows no signs of noticing the SV. SV brakes hard then steers left to avoid impact with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided three-lane roadway. A piece of cardboard blows onto the road from the left and heads toward the SV. Subject brakes and steers right to avoid the cardboard.
Subject vehicle is traveling at dusk in a through lane on an undivided commercial roadway, approaching a signalized intersection. V2 is stopped in a long queue in the adjacent left turn lane ahead of the SV, and V3 is in the adjacent right lane behind the SV. V2 suddenly begins to change lanes in front of the SV, just as the SV is about to pass. Subject brakes hard and steers to the right in order to avoid striking V2, nearly sideswiping V3.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the middle lane of a business area. Subject has a cell phone in his left hand and is glancing down at it during the event. The subject is also distracted by interacting with a passenger in the front seat during the event. A lead vehicle (V2) has just changed into the subject's lane, and is beginning to decelerate for other vehicles stopped at a traffic signal. Subject looks up from his cell phone and realizes that V2 is decelerating. The subject must brake hard and steer into the right adjacent lane to avoid a collision with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided roadway in a wooded residential area. Subject approaches a signalized intersection. V2 is traveling in the opposite direction, waiting in the intersection to make a left turn across the subject's path. The light turns yellow as the subject approaches, and the subject accelerates in response. The light turns red, but it appears that the subject intends to proceed through the intersection. V2 begins to turn left across the intersection, and the subject driver must brake hard to avoid a collision. V2 completes the turn across the intersection. Subject comes to a stop in the intersection and reverses back into his original lane.
Subject vehicle is traveling through an urban area in the left through lane. Ahead, several vehicles are stopped due to a red traffic signal. Subject begins to move into the right lane to pass these stopped vehicles. However, at about the same time, the lead vehicle (V2) also moves into the right lane. The subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is stopped in a line of traffic in a commercial area due to a traffic signal. Lead vehicle (V2) begins to move forward, as does the subject vehicle. Subject driver looks down while moving in the traffic lane, appearing to put something in the center console area. While the subject is looking down, V2 brakes to a stop again for stopped lead traffic. Subject looks up and must brake hard to avoid rear ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided commercial road under construction in a fair amount of traffic. The lead vehicle (V2) begins to decelerate while the subject is looking in the rearview mirror. Subject proceeds to briefly glance out the right window, further limiting the amount of time he has to notice V2 decelerate ahead of him. When the subject returns his attention to the road, he must brake hard to avoid rear ending V2.
Subject vehicle is decelerating within the dedicated right turn lane, approaching a signalized intersection. V2 is slightly ahead to the left, in the adjacent through lane. V2 begins to drift into the SV's lane, with intentions of entering the dedicated right turn lane. SV brakes hard and steers right to avoid V2, while V2 brakes and steers left back into its original lane. SV departs the road onto the shoulder, due to his evasive maneuver, before moving back onto the roadway and turning right at the intersection.
Subject is traveling through a business area on an undivided four-lane road. Ahead, a lead vehicle (V2) has stopped to make a right turn onto a side street. It appears that the V2 driver does not know whether to turn because he remains stopped in the road (there are construction cones in the area; the side street may be closed). Subject apparently expects V2 to make the turn more quickly, and must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject is going around a slight curve while approaching an intersection with a green light. V2 is across the intersection traveling in the opposite direction. V2 fails to yield and turns left in front of the SV. The subject brakes hard in order to avoid a collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided road in a mixed residential and business area. Subject approaches an uncontrolled intersection. Another vehicle (V2) pulls up to the stop sign on the perpendicular roadway to the right. Subject is just about to enter the intersection when V2 pulls out and makes a right turn into the subject's path. Subject must brake hard and steer left to avoid striking V2 on the left side. V2 does not seem to have any reaction to the subject's presence.
Subject vehicle is traveling through a construction zone on a divided highway in heavy traffic. It is dark, and the area is lit. Due to the construction, only one lane is open. Subject is singing to herself throughout the event. The lead vehicle (V2) begins to brake in response to traffic. Subject also begins to brake. Subject quickly looks down at something inside the vehicle. At the same time, V2 brakes harder momentarily. Subject looks up and must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed on a divided highway; V2 is in the right adjacent lane ahead. V2 begins to change lanes unaware that the trailer it is hauling may collide with the subject. Subject honks and brakes to avoid a collision with the trailer, while V2 does not react and continues to merge into the subject's lane.
Subject is traveling in the rightmost lane on a three-lane divided highway. Subject is speeding, going 64 mph in a 50 mph zone. There is a vehicle (V2) making a U-turn from the oncoming lane in front of the subject. V2 makes a wide turn, coming into the subject's lane. Subject must brake hard and steer to the right to avoid rear-ending V2. As a result of this evasive maneuver, the subject vehicle goes off the right edge of the road. Subject steers left to get back onto the roadway and swerves briefly before regaining control.
This event is one of a series multiple conflicts between SV and V2. SV is traveling in the fast lane down a three lane highway with V2 attempting to pass the subject on the left shoulder. Once V2 overtakes SV from the left shoulder, V2 brake checks the subject. SV brakes hard to avoid rea- end striking V2. Then both parties continue with their conflicts throughout the file.
Subject is driving in a construction zone with a parking lot entrance/exit ahead on the  right. V2 is exiting the parking lot and attempting to turn into the opposite direction of  the SV. V2 pulls out too far into the intersection, tries to go without enough space, and  then stops again as subject brakes hard to avoid striking V2 in the side. Both vehicles  come to a complete stop and subject waves V2 through the intersection.
The subject is traveling on a divided interstate with moderate traffic. The subject is engaging in several  aggressive actions toward another vehicle. The subject then changes lanes directly behind V2. V2 then  responds by braking. The subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. 
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate with moderate traffic. Another vehicle (V2) is following the subject closely. Subject brakes slightly, apparently in an act of 'road rage' toward V2. V2 brakes to avoid rear-ending the subject. This is one event in a series of aggressive driving incidents between V2 and the SV.
This event is one of a series of multiple conflicts between the SV and V2. SV is traveling in the leftmost lane down a three-lane highway with V2 attempting to pass the subject on the left shoulder. V3, is slightly ahead of the SV.  V2 aggressively merges into the SV's lane, between the SV and V3. Subject must brake hard to avoid a collision with V2. After the incident, both vehicles pull off onto the shoulder.
SV traveling at constant speed down an exit ramp approaching V2 ahead decelerating in reaction to a  signal light. SV brakes hard and steers right to avoid V2 then runs over a construction cone.  SV then  steers back into the original lane and continues to her destination. 
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed along a divided two-lane roadway with only one through lane, due to construction cutting off the second through lane. Subject begins texting on a cell phone and does not notice V2 decelerating ahead, due to traffic responding to a signal light. When the subject returns his attention to the road, he must brake hard to avoid a rear-end collision with V2.
Subject is exiting an interstate in the first lane of a two lane interchange that is under construction. The deceleration lanes shift to the right shortly after subject exits, and he fails to stay in the intended lane, instead driving partially onto the left shoulder. Subject then begins to come to a stop instead of immediately shifting back into lane one, which appears to be clear of traffic. V2 is behind subject and has to brake quickly to avoid rear-end striking subject.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate with moderate traffic. It is almost night, and the area is well lit. To the right, there is a separate crash incident with several emergency vehicles. The far right through lane is closed due to the incident. Subject turns his head to the right to look at the incident and doesn't notice the lead vehicle (V2) begin to decelerate. When the subject's attention returns to the road, he must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is accelerating in a construction zone with a highway interchange ahead. It is lightly raining, and the roadway is wet. A truck (V2) is also accelerating directly ahead of the subject. Subject driver appears to be tired, and she doesn't immediately recognize when V2 begins to decelerate ahead. Subject does decelerate in time, but she reaches to grab a bag that fell off the passenger seat. While she is distracted by the fallen bag, the subject seems to lose track of what is happening in front of her, and she hits the brakes hard and steers to the right in order to avoid a rear end collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided highway through a business area. Ahead, the lead vehicle (V2) begins to decelerate. Subject doesn't notice this deceleration because she is looking out the passenger widow. When the subject's attention returns to the roadway, she must brake hard and swerve into the right adjacent lane to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate through a construction area. The right through lane is closed, due to the construction. Ahead, the lead vehicle (V2) begins to decelerate rapidly. Subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject is decelerating in a construction zone with V2 directly ahead. V2 also begins to  decelerate, and subject hits the brakes harder in order to avoid a potential rear end  collision with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the right lane of a non-divided roadway near a university campus. Subject is approaching a signalized intersection behind a large truck. Just past the intersection, the SV's lane is closed, due to road construction. The truck and the subject are trying to pass a vehicle (V2) in the left adjacent through lane. The truck is able to pass V2 and quickly moves into the left lane. Once the subject realizes he won't have enough time to pass V2, he is forced to brake to avoid a sideswipe collision with V2.
Subject driver is traveling closely behind a lead vehicle (V2) on an entrance ramp. It is night, and the area is lit. SV accelerates forward in an attempt to persuade V2 to accelerate more. Subject realizes she is about to rear-end strike V2 due to her aggressive driving habits and brakes hard. This is one of three incidents the SV was involved in throughout the file.
Subject driver is traveling closely behind a lead vehicle (V2) on an entrance ramp. It is night, and the area is lit. SV accelerates forward in an attempt to persuade V2 to accelerate more. Subject realizes she is about to rear-end strike V2, due to her aggressive driving habits and brakes hard. This is one of three incidents the SV was involved in throughout the file.
Subject is driving on an undivided road through a construction zone where opposing traffic has been redirected into the subject's adjacent left lane, which was a through lane in the subject's direction of travel before construction began. V2, a dump truck, moves into the lane designated for opposing traffic, then back into the correct lane. As V2 weaves around cones to get into SV's lane once again, subject has to brake hard in order to avoid a rear end strike with V2.
Subject is attempting to take a picture with her cell phone and driving is moderate traffic with V2 directly ahead, and V3 directly behind the SV. V2 begins to decelerate as it goes  around a curve, but is not immediately noticed by the subject. Subject looks up and taps  the brakes hard, in order to avoid striking V2. V3 then has to brake hard in order to avoid  rear-ending the SV when it quickly slowed down. Subject does not react to nearly being  struck and continues driving.
Subject is travelling on an undivided road at a constant speed, approaching an uncontrolled intersection where construction is taking place on the perpendicular road. V2, directly ahead of SV, starts to decelerate as a lead vehicle turns right onto the perpendicular road; lead vehicle cannot turn quickly due to construction. Subject is looking down to adjust the radio at event time, and does not immediately notice that V2 has begun to decelerate. When subject looks up, he brakes hard in order to avoid a rear strike with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate through an interchange area with heavy traffic. The lead vehicle (V2) begins to decelerate due to traffic ahead. Subject gets very close to V2 as it begins decelerating. V2 decelerates again, and the subject must brake hard in order to avoid a rear-end collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate through a construction zone. Subject is in the left through lane when the lead traffic begins to decelerate. Subject doesn't expect the lead vehicle's (V2's) sudden deceleration.  As a result, the subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. A following vehicle, (V3) also must brake hard to avoid rear-ending the subject.
The subject is traveling on a divided interstate in the left through lane. The subject beings to move into  the right adjacent through lane but cuts in too close behind another vehicle (V2). V2 then begins to  decelerate and the subject must brake hard to avoid a rear-end collision. 
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided road through a business area. Subject intends to take an entrance/exit ramp ahead but reacts late. In order to take the exit, subject brakes hard and steers right, departing the road on the left. Then, the subject steers right to get back onto the roadway.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the center lane of a divided roadway in a business area. Subject  approaches a green light at a signalized intersection. Just before reaching the intersection, the subject  steers into the left lane to pass a slower moving lead vehicle (V2). At the same time, V2 begins to move  left to pass slower moving lead traffic. Subject is forced to brake to avoid rear-ending V2. V2 steers  back into the center lane after noticing the subject's presence.
Subject is traveling behind a vehicle (V2) on a divided avenue at dusk. There is construction in the far left lane, and both vehicles are approaching a traffic signal. V2 begins to brake for stopped lead traffic, forcing the subject to also begin to brake. V2 brakes harder than the subject seems to realize, and the subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. Another vehicle (V3) must also brake hard to avoid rear-ending the subject.
Subject is traveling on a divided highway at night. There are construction cones blocking the right two lanes of the highway. Subject is following a lead vehicle (V2) in the rightmost available through lane. V2 begins to move into an exit ramp lane, with the subject following. At the last second, V2 brakes in order to move back out of the exit ramp lane, slowing down substantially to avoid hitting a traffic cone. Subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject is traveling at a high speed (approximately 65 MPH) in the left through lane of an undivided road with two through lanes, beginning to decelerate as she approaches a lead vehicle. As subject approaches a parking lot entrance on the right, V2 turns right out of the entrance into subject's lane, causing her to brake hard in order to avoid a collision with V2.
SV is traveling in the leftmost of two deceleration lanes on a divided highway behind V2. Traffic quickly slows due to congestion in the interchange area, causing V2 to brake hard. SV then has to brake hard in order to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a non-divided, visibly wet roadway through a business area. Ahead, a lead vehicle begins to decelerate in response to traffic ahead at a signalized intersection. Subject is late in recognizing this deceleration, because she is looking at an object outside the left window. When the subject's attention returns to the roadway, she must brake hard and steer left to avoid a rear-end collision. The SV skids slightly on the wet road, but the subject is able to avert a crash.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a university campus. Subject talks on a handheld cellphone throughout the event. Subject has just turned onto a one-way road and is beginning to accelerate. Subject approaches a crosswalk and notices a pedestrian about to step into the roadway. Subject driver quickly brakes and avoids striking the pedestrian. The pedestrian makes no attempt to avoid the subject vehicle and does not appear to look when crossing the road.
SV is traveling in the far right lane of a three-lane highway entrance ramp, which narrows to two lanes before joining the highway. At the point where the road becomes two lanes, SV looks left to check his blind spot for traffic in order to merge into the adjacent left lane, and as he does so, lead traffic begins to slow. When SV looks back to the road, he must brake hard as he approaches V2's right side, then stop the merging maneuver in order to avoid striking V2.
The subject is driving on a 2 lane divided highway with construction cones blocking traffic from using  the right lane. The lead vehicle (V2) slows down as it passes a maintenance truck that is parked in the  construction zone causing the subject to brake to avoid rear ending V2. 
Subject vehicle is traveling in rightmost of three lanes on a divided highway in heavy traffic. V2 moves into subject's lane and decelerates to accommodate lead traffic. Subject brakes hard to avoid collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided highway. Subject is distracted with holding his cell phone in both hands well above the steering wheel, presumably to text. V2, ahead in the adjacent lane to the right, begins to change into the SV's lane. Subject quickly puts his phone down and brakes to avoid a rear-end collision with V2.
Subject is in the left lane of a divided road with two through lanes, directly behind Vehicle 2, where both vehicles are stopped in traffic. Subject is texting as traffic ahead begins to move then stops again. Subject rolls forward but is still texting and doesn't notice that V2 has stopped. Upon looking up, she must brake hard to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a one-way road through a business area. Subject moves from the far right lane into the middle lane and begins to accelerate. Another vehicle (V2) in the left adjacent lane begins to move into the subject's lane without signaling. Subject brakes and steers right while V2 steers left, and a sideswipe collision is avoided.
Subject vehicle is negotiating a slight left curve in a construction zone in the far right lane of an interstate. A tractor trailer (V2) travels ahead in the adjacent left lane. V2 drifts out of its lane while negotiating the curve, and the trailer begins to enter the SV's lane, nearly sideswiping it. Subject brakes in order to avoid a collision, and V2 corrects its steering.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided road, near a college.  V2 is slightly ahead in the adjacent right lane, which is ending soon. V2 moves into the SV's lane at the last moment, and the subject must brake to avoid a sideswipe collision with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate in the right lane. Ahead, the lane ends due to construction. Subject doesn't notice this change because she is glancing down at a cell phone. When the subject's attention returns to the road, she must brake and steer left into the adjacent lane to avoid a road departure. At the same time the subject is moving into the left lane, there is another vehicle (V2) passing the subject. Subject continues to brake to move into the lane behind V2.
Subject is traveling on a non-divided roadway through a construction area. A deer approaches the road and crosses subject's path, causing subject to brake and steer right to avoid striking the animal.
Subject is on an entrance ramp to a busy highway with four through lanes and one acceleration lane, directly behind V2. V2 slows to a halt for two stopped vehicles in the acceleration lane that are waiting for a break in traffic in order to merge onto the highway. Subject is slow to react, and must brake hard and steer right to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject is merging from an entrance ramp on the right onto a three-lane highway, which narrows to two lanes soon after the interchange, with V2 accelerating in the far left lane. Subject accelerates to merge by passing a lead vehicle to her left. At the same time, the road narrows to two lanes, and V2 moves into the far right lane ahead of subject, immediately braking for dense lead traffic. Subject must brake hard and steer toward the right shoulder in order to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject is travelling behind a lead vehicle (V2) on a two lane road. V2 brakes almost to a stop for a  bump related to a construction zone. Subject must brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending V2.  A  collision is avoided and  continues on. 
Subject is travelling behind a lead vehicle (V2) on a divided highway. V2 begins to brake for slow lead  traffic, causing subject to brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending V2. Behind subject, V3 must also  brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending subject. 
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate at about 70 mph, with V2 traveling ahead at a slower speed. Subject reacts late to V2's rate of speed and must brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed on a divided interstate with heavy traffic. It is lightly raining. The lead vehicle (V2) begins decelerating for traffic ahead. Subject brakes hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the middle lane on an undivided road in a business area. After passing through a signalized intersection, the subject merges into the adjacent left lane to get behind V2, which is ahead. V2 is traveling at a constant speed but decelerates for traffic ahead. Subject has to react quickly and brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject is speeding in a work zone at the time of the event. Ahead V2 begins to brake for slower moving  lead traffic. Subject is forced to brake hard in order to avoid rear-ending V2. Subject vehicle briefly loses  control while braking, but subject regains control and successfully avoids a collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an undivided roadway through a business area. Subject moves into a dedicated right turn lane, approaching a signalized intersection.  Traffic in the right turn lane is not required to stop at the light. V2 is ahead of the subject in the same lane, waiting for traffic to clear. Subject looks left for an opening in traffic and does not realize how rapidly he is approaching the stopped V2. When the subject returns his attention to the road, he must brake quickly to avoid a collision.
Subject is traveling directly behind V2 in lane one of a three lane road, where the third lane is a dedicated exit lane. As V2 begins decelerating for traffic ahead, subject is having a conversation using a handheld cellphone. Initially, she brakes at a safe distance, though unevenly, but ultimately she doesn't notice V2 coming to a near stop. Subject must brake hard and steer to the left in order to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject turns left from a stop sign controlled T intersection in a poorly lit residential area with no sidewalks, very small road shoulders, and construction on the sides of the road. After subject turns left, he sees a pedestrian on the narrow right shoulder of the road, and brakes hard to avoid striking that person.
Subject is in the middle lane of a road that has just become three lanes due to a deceleration lane added to the right. V2 is in the deceleration lane, which also ends shortly due to construction, and changes lanes at a close proximity to subject, forcing him to brake hard in order to avoid a collision.
Subject is in the left lane of an undivided roadway with two through lanes, passing other vehicles while texting. V2, ahead of subject in the right lane, is behind a cyclist who is traveling in a dedicated bike lane. As subject is looking at his phone, V2, traveling more slowly than subject, makes a sudden lane change into subject's lane in order to move around the cyclist. When subject looks back to the road, he must brake hard to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject vehicle is accelerating on an entrance ramp leading up to a highway. Signs indicate construction and reduced speed ahead. Subject seems to be slightly distracted as he talks or sings and glances out the left window. The lead vehicle (V2) quickly begins to decelerate for traffic ahead. Subject seems to be caught off guard by the sudden slowdown of traffic. Subject must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject begins to accelerate after stopped behind lead traffic at a red light. Ahead of subject, another  vehicle (V2) begins to brake for traffic in the intersection. Subject is checking for traffic while V2 begins  to brake. Subject looks back forward and realizes that V2 is braking. Subject is forced to brake to avoid  rear-ending V2.
Subject is travelling on a congested road. A lead vehicle (V2) is decelerating ahead of subject. V2  brakes hard and comes to a stop suddenly. Subject is forced to brake hard to avoid rear-ending  V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling in the rightmost through lane of a divided five-lane roadway in rainy conditions. It is dark, the area is lit, and the road is under construction. V2 ahead begins to decelerate. Subject becomes preoccupied, looking out the right window. Subject fails to notice V2 braking to turn right. Once the subject's attention is back on the road, she must brake hard and steer partially into the adjacent left lane to avoid a collision with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a freeway in the far left lane. All the other lanes are closed due to construction. Traffic ahead accelerates briefly, then decelerates rapidly. Subject is late to react and must brake hard to avoid rear-ending the lead vehicle.
Subject is traveling on an interstate in the left through lane. Ahead, another vehicle (V2) is merging into the right through lane. However, V2 continues moving left and tries to enter the subject's lane. Subject must steer left to avoid a collision with V2.
Subject is traveling in the second lane from the left on a divided highway, with V2 directly ahead. V2 begins to decelerate for lead traffic, and subject reacts by deciding to move into the adjacent left lane rather than slowing. Traffic prevents her from merging in a timely fashion, and as a result, subject brakes hard and swerves left once the lane becomes available in order to avoid rear-end striking V2.
SV is traveling in lane one of a three-lane divided highway at constant speed in a construction area where traffic is relatively heavy. Lead V2 is quickly decelerating to a full stop, and SV must brake hard to avoid rear-end striking V2. V3, directly behind SV, must then also brake hard to avoid rear-end striking SV.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate near an interchange area. Subject moves left from the rightmost lane to the middle lane. V2, slightly ahead in the adjacent rightmost lane, begins to move into the SV's lane.  SV brakes hard and honks to avoid a sideswipe collision with V2.
Subject is traveling  on a divided highway within a lane that is about to end. It is night, and the area is lit. V2, behind the subject in the left adjacent lane, attempts to pass the subject before the lane ends. Subject notices V2 is not going to allow her to merge in front of it, and she brakes to avoid  impact with V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed along a lit, divided roadway in a business area, at night. Ahead, V2 begins to turn right into the SV's path from a parking lot entrance on the right.  SV brakes hard to avoid striking V2's front left corner, and then the subject activates the critical incident button to explain the event.
Subject vehicle is traveling on an urban one-way street in the left lane, with vehicles parallel parked on the left. V2 is exiting a parking lot on the left and cannot see or be seen by the SV because of the parked vehicles. V2 begins to pull into the SV's path. Both drivers brake hard when they notice each other, in order to avoid a collision.
Subject is driving on the interstate at night in a construction zone. V2 is ahead in the  adjacent left lane, which is about to become blocked off by construction barrels. V2  needs to change into the SV's lane, which subject gives enough room for, but V2 decides  to decelerate rather than just go straight into the lane change. The deceleration forces  subject to brake hard in order to give enough room for V2 to merge.
Subject is driving at night in the right lane of a highway that currently has only two through lanes of travel due to construction, with V2 in the adjacent left lane. Construction barrels in subject's lane begin to narrow it to a terminus, requiring subject to merge left into the only remaining available lane, which he begins to do later than he should. Traffic is slowing ahead, and V2 decelerates next to subject, preventing him from merging. Subject brakes hard to merge left behind V2 and avoid a sideswipe collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided highway with two open through lanes and two lanes closed due to road construction. Subject begins decelerating within his traffic lane, due to surrounding traffic. Subject decides to move right into a faster lane. Subject begins to accelerate, looking back to see if it is safe to change lanes. Subject accelerates into the right lane but must brake hard and steer right to avoid a rear-end strike with the lead vehicle (V2).
Subject is driving behind V2 approaching an intersection. V2 begins to move into subject's lane,  threatening to sideswipe subject vehicle. Subject must brake and steer to the right to avoid being  sideswiped by V2.
Subject is travelling on a highway during the event. V2 is ahead of subject, and begins to brake hard for  braking lead traffic. This forces subject to brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2. Behind subject, V3 must  brake hard to avoid striking subject.
Subject is approaching a green light at a signalized intersection in lane one of an undivided road with a center turn lane and two through lanes. Subject is close to passing through the intersection when V2 turns right into the roadway from a perpendicular street and enters at a much slower rate of speed into subject's lane of travel. Subject must brake hard to avoid rear-end striking V2.
Subject is traveling in the left lane of a divided urban road. V2 is ahead and in the adjacent right lane. While passing through an intersection, V2 starts to change into the subject's lane. Subject brakes to avoid a sideswipe collision.
Subject is in the right of two through lanes on an undivided road, approaching a parking lot exit on the right, where V2 is waiting to turn left. V2 begins to turn as subject approaches, sees subject, then comes to a stop, partially blocking subject's lane. Subject must brake hard and steer into the left lane to avoid a collision with V2.
Subject is in the right of two through lanes on a divided highway, approaching a construction zone in light rain. The highway divider opens up to allow traffic from an intersecting road to turn left across subject's path in the opposite direction of travel. As subject approaches the intersection, she reaches for her mobile phone, and is holding it as V2 begins to turn across her path. Subject does not expect V2, and brakes and swerves left in order to avoid a collision, while V2 brakes and waits for subject to pass before proceeding.
Subject is traveling on a divided interstate in the left through lane. Ahead, in the right through lane, a tractor-trailer is signaling for a lane change. Subject brakes hard as V2 begins the lane change and avoids rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is turning left from a dedicated left turn lane at a signalized intersection in a business area. Subject begins to make the turn, but appears not to see another vehicle making a right turn coming from the opposite direction. Both vehicles must brake hard to avoid a collision. V2 allows the subject to complete his left turn.
Subject is traveling through a parking lot. He seems to be singing/talking, and he is holding a cup in his right hand. As the subject follows V2 and approaches a left turn, he glances to the right. When the subject looks forward again he realizes V2 has stopped, and he must brake hard to avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject is traveling in the far right lane of a three-lane divided highway (which briefly becomes four-lanes due to an acceleration lane) with a moderate amount of traffic during the day. Subject is holding a cellphone in his right hand, appears to dial a number, and begins a phone conversation. V2 is directly in front of subject, traveling at constant speed, and V3 is a good distance behind subject. V2 decelerates rapidly for slowing lead traffic, causing subject to brake hard and steer slightly right to avoid rear-end striking V2, and V3 must brake hard in response to avoid rear-end striking subject.
Subject driver is traveling in the right lane on an interstate in moderate traffic. The sun is low and bright. V2, traveling in the center lane, turns on the right signal and changes lanes in front of the subject driver. To avoid a collision, the subject driver brakes, and V2 accelerates.
Driver is in lane 2 - vehicle merges in ahead of subject -  driver has to brake to avoid rear-ending lead vehicle.
