Subject vehicle travels on a divided multi-lane highway with five contiguous lanes. The far right lane is closed for construction, and subject vehicle is in the lane adjacent to it. Traffic is moving well with minimal restrictions on maneuverability caused by the upcoming construction zone and lane closure, not by the traffic volume. Subject vehicle travels about 50 to 55 mph with a 60 mph speed limit. Passing a construction vehicle in the closed lane on the right, the lead vehicle (V2) slows briefly to nearly a complete stop, although traffic in adjacent lanes is still moving fluidly. Subject brakes to avoid rear-ending V2, braking much harder than necessary to come to a complete stop. Subject intends to move into the adjacent left lane to pass the lead traffic, but has to wait for the lane to clear. The trailing vehicle (V3) is forced to brake sharply to avoid rear-ending the nearly-stopped subject vehicle.
The subject driver and two lead vehicles (V2, directly in front of the subject vehicle, and V3, in front of V2) approach a signalized intersection and a construction zone in the second lane from the left on a divided road. V3 decelerates in response to lead traffic. V2 brakes and steers left to avoid rear-ending V3. The subject driver brakes, the brakes lock, and the subject vehicle skids forward, rear-ending V2.
Subject is driving in the rightmost of two through lanes on a business-area road and Vehicle 2 is in the adjacent left lane.  Both vehicles are approaching a yellow stoplight.  Vehicle 3 is stopped in the lane of oncoming traffic, waiting to make a left turn.  All three vehicles attempt to go through the intersection before the light turns red.  Subject speeds through the intersection at about 45 MPH.  Meanwhile, V3 attempts to turn left just ahead of V2, but has overestimated the distance and nearly clips V2. To avoid a collision, V2 swerves to the right, in front of Subject.  Subject brakes sharply and swerves right as well, onto the shoulder.  Subject returns to the right lane just after the intersection ends and V3 completes the left turn after the two oncoming vehicles pass. 
The subject driver moves from the left lane to the middle lane of an interstate at dusk. Traffic is congested due to construction ahead; the subject driver travels at below 40 miles per hour for the entire event. V2 is ahead in the middle lane, and V3 is ahead of V2, in the right lane. V3 activates its right turn signal and changes lanes to the left into the middle lane, nearly sideswiping V2. V2 brakes to avoid a collision with V3, and the subject driver brakes to avoid rear-ending V2. V3 completes the lane change and brakes, coming almost to a complete stop. V2 brakes more severely. The subject driver had released the brakes, and brakes again, but cannot avoid rear-ending V2.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided three-lane highway in the right lane. Two vehicles are ahead, also in the right lane, traveling at constant speed approximately 50 feet in front of subject vehicle. Subject driver begins to brake in response to the lead vehicle (V3) braking. V3 continues braking and steers right onto the shoulder to avoid rear-ending V2, as V2 brakes before running over a traffic cone in the roadway. V2 passes V3 on the right shoulder just before a new right lane appears. Subject driver continues braking and steers left, but still runs over the cone. 
Subject vehicle and the lead vehicle (V3) are approaching a signalized intersection preparing to turn left. The area has signs and cones for construction. The light turns green and both vehicles begins to accelerate forward. V3 enters the intersection and immediately brakes for a construction vehicle (V2) turning into its path. In reaction to V3 braking ahead, SV brakes hard to avoid a rear-end strike with V3.
Subject vehicle is traveling at a constant speed on a divided four-lane roadway, with only two lanes available for travel due to construction. V2 is ahead of the SV, and V3 is ahead of V2 in the same lane. V3 begins to decelerate suddenly for traffic ahead. V2 brakes and steers right, in between the cones of the closed lane to avoid a rear-end collision with V3. Subject brakes hard in reaction to V2's evasive maneuver to avoid a rear-end collision.
Subject vehicle is traveling on a divided interstate in the middle of three through lanes. There is another rightmost lane that is exit only. The lead vehicle (V2) activates its left turn signal and decelerates to a stop when the driver realizes he/she is about to miss his/her exit. There is heavy traffic in the adjacent right lane, so V2 must wait for traffic to clear before switching lanes. Subject brakes hard to avoid a rear-end collision with V2. Subject must come to a complete stop and wait for V2 to switch lanes.
SV is traveling at constant speed along a divided three lane highway. SV brakes then steers right for  an unknown reasons departing from the roadway. SV then steers left to get back on the road before  continuing to her destination. 
